Important notices for SRCF users {#important-notices}
================================

Commercial hosting
------------------

Our servers are connected to the Internet via the Cambridge University
Data Network (CUDN), and as such all users of the SRCF are bound by its
rules, which explicitly forbids any use of the CUDN for commercial or
for-profit activities. Therefore it is not possible for commercial
websites to be hosted on our machines. For more details, please refer to
the [Authorization for Use of the CUDN
Rules](http://www.uis.cam.ac.uk/governance/information-services-committee/rules-and-guidelines/other-guidelines/network-use/cudn-rules)
and the [Rules Made by the Information Services
Committee](http://www.uis.cam.ac.uk/governance/information-services-committee/rules-and-guidelines/rules).

Our interpretation of these rules is that including a sponsor\'s logo on
a group account website is acceptable, however selling web space or
advertising is not.

Furthermore, the SRCF server is maintained by a group of volunteer
sysadmins who donate their time freely to ensure that our services can
continue to operate smoothly. We do not feel that it is appropriate to
ask that the sysadmins give up their time in this way so that others can
make money.

Inappropriate content
---------------------

### Our policy

Inappropriate content is deemed to be any content that is in
contravention of the CUDN rules and guidelines, or JANET AUP. Amongst
other things these rules prohibit using the CUDN to store or transmit
material that is obscene, defamatory, offensive or violates a third
party\'s copyright. If such material comes to the attention of the
sysadmins or committee the responsible user will be required to remove
it. In the case of gross and flagrant breaches of the rules the
sysadmins may remove the material themselves. The account of a user
responsible for prohibited material may be suspended and they may be
reported to the Computing Service.

So in summary, don\'t do it!

### Reporting a breach

Please let the user or group that controls the content know that you
consider it inappropriate, and explain why with reference to the SRCF\'s
Terms of Service, CUDN rules and guidelines, or JANET AUP. For pages
with URLs of the form:

`http://spqr2.user.srcf.net/` or `http://www.srcf.ucam.org/~spqr2/`

you should email **spqr2**\@srcf.net

For pages with URLs of the form:

`http://groupname.soc.srcf.net/` or
`http://www.srcf.ucam.org/groupname/`

you should email \*\*<groupname**-webmaster@srcf.net>

If you do not get a response from the owner of the page or feel unable
to approach them yourselves, then you should forward your concerns to
the committee: <committee@srcf.net>.

Using resources wisely
----------------------

Please be considerate of others when running long and CPU-intensive
tasks. Make sure that you use \'nice\' to give them a low priority and
double check your code to make sure that there aren\'t memory leaks or
other bugs which might impair the performance of the system for the
other users.

If you need to use a lot of computing time for academic reasons your
first port of call should be your department or college as they should
provide you with the resources you need for your studies. If your
reasons are non-academic,
[get in touch with us \<get-help\>]{role="ref"}.
